Mark Leon Goldberg is host and founder
of the global dispatches podcast and
editor-in-chief of un dispatch a Blog
about the UN and Global Affairs he joins
us live from Denver now welcome to the
program so break it down a little bit
for us if you will what was the main
practical purpose of this meeting in
your
view well the international court of
justice its rulings are intended to be
binding but it doesn't really have any
way of enforcing its ruling so countries
can simply opt to ignore without much
Consequence the idea behind this meeting
that was called by Algeria was to
provide some you know political momentum
to in a way compel Israel to abide by
this ruling but as the previous segment
indicated the ruling was interpreted in
different ways by different member
States including the United States who
explicitly noted that the ruling did not
call for a ceasefire so it really didn't
change much of the Diplomatic Dynamics
that we've been seeing at the security
Council for the last several months now
so whatever the result then could Israel
simply ignore any ruling or
resolution it seems to be doing
precisely that um now it's a provisional
ruling the final outcome of the question
whether or not Israel is committing
genocide against the Palestinians as put
forward by the application by South
Africa that's going to take years and
years and years to adjudicate so the
idea is to try to get Israel to abide by
these provisional me measures to do
really three things one take steps to
prevent genocide two stop the incitement
of genocide and three allow more
humanitarian Aid into uh Gaza as well to
improve the humanitarian situation
people might be asking why does it take
so long why does the icj appear to move
so slowly what are the factors
involved well listen the wheels of
Justice at the icj do move very slowly
the most recent genocide case at the icj
was in 2019 when The Gambia small West
African country accused Myanmar of
genocide against the rinia that was 2019
it took the icj four years to decide
whether or not it even had jurisdiction
to decide the question and the case is
still ongoing genocide also is a very
complicated and complex question of
international law there's a lot of legal
intricacies going into deciding whether
or not genocide is indeed occurring so
those two factors just the structural
way in which the icj operates plus the
tricky legal questions around genocide
in particular all combined to make this
a really lengthy and drawn out process
that will take many years and let me ask
you what do you make of the situation
with uh unra then because it's in a
difficult position but it its work is so
vital and you saw members of the US
State Department just this week
reiterate how vital the work of unro is
how it's irreparable in and
irreplaceable among uh humanitarian
agencies in unrea just at the moment
that they were cutting funding to unrea
now it is the main player to the extent
that limited Aid is able to get into
Israel uh into Gaza via those two
crossings that are opening it is
distributed by Ena within Gaza
and it the humanitarian situation that
is already perilous now will comp will
collapse nearly entirely by May says
unoa if funding is not restored it's a
really really heavy heavy blow we have
to leave it there mark Leon Goldberg we
appreciate your time thank
you thanks